TCD-2913: Backtrace - Batch 2 (#2280)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/error-reporting/advanced/client-tools-unix.md

---
id: client-tools-unix
title: Client Tools for UNIX
sidebar_label: Client Tools for UNIX
description: Client tools installation for Unix.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

## What You'll Need

- A Backtrace account ([log in](https://backtrace.io/login) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://backtrace.io/sign-up)).
- Your subdomain name (used to connect to your Backtrace instance). For example, `https://example-subdomain.sp.backtrace.io`.
- A Backtrace project and a submission token.

:::tip Generate a Submission Token

1. In the Backtrace Console, go to **Project settings > Error submission > Submission tokens**.
1. Select **+**.

:::

## Client Tools Installation

These steps require a license number from Backtrace to install the necessary packages. Contact us to receive a license number before proceeding.

All tools are installed in `/opt/backtrace/bin/` by default. We recommend you add this to your path:

```shell
$ export PATH=$PATH:/opt/backtrace/bin
```

> ### coroner

Author: ```suggestion
### Coroner
```

`coroner` is the Backtrace object store client. It is used to submit and query the object store. Check out the [coroner client usage](/error-reporting/advanced/coroner/client-usage/) for more information.

#### RHEL/CentOS

```shell
$ yum install backtrace-coroner
```

#### Ubuntu/Debian

```shell
$ apt-get install backtrace-coroner
```

After installed, you need to generate and install [coroner.cf](/error-reporting/advanced/coroner/client-getting-started/).

### ptrace

`ptrace` is the Backtrace snapshot generator. It is used to generate application snapshots.

#### RHEL/CentOS

```shell
$ yum install backtrace-ptrace
```

#### Ubuntu/Debian

```shell
$ apt-get install backtrace-ptrace
```

:::caution For Ubuntu 10.10 or later:

> Starting in Ubuntu 10.10, a change was made which prevents users that are not root to `ptrace` processes that aren't children. With this restriction in place, `ptrace` needs to be run as root, which will result in the snapshot files being permissioned for root as well.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from Ubuntu 10.10, a change prevents users who are not root from `ptrace` processes that are not children.With this restriction in place, `ptrace` needs to be run as root, which will result in the snapshot files being permissioned for root as well.
```

This restriction can be disabled by issuing the command:

```shell
$ echo 0 | sudo tee /proc/sys/kernel/yama/ptrace_scope
```

For additional information, refer to the following comprehensive guide: [After Upgrade, GDB Won't Attach to Process](https://askubuntu.com/questions/41629/after-upgrade-gdb-wont-attach-to-process) on the Ask Ubuntu website.
:::

> ### hydra

Author: ```suggestion
### Hydra
```
